ok and this quick and dirty webcam
lesson this is dedicated to George and
we're going to be talking about just
using melodic rhythm and arpeggios for
such as a soloing device so the
reference cheering is girl from Ipanema
and the main and we're just going to be
using the melodic rhythm in other words
that's the rhythm that you know the
singer sings so the chords are if g 7 g
minor 7 g flat 7 if major 7 then in the
bridge f sharp minor 7 b7 if sharp minor
7 d7 g minor 7 e flat 7 a minus 7 d7 G
minor 7 c7 and Becky so if you can't
find the cords for Ipanema just leave me
a comment below and I'll put something
up so let's just assume that you've got
the chords in front of you and you know
the melody and it's time to solar what
are you going to do so here's what I
suggest we just take the S shape and
there's MLD there RPG of those are our
melody notes we use the melodic rhythm
ok that's all of this then we go to g7
then we gotta g minus even to G flat
major F to G flat major
now you might be wondering where those
melodies coming from you're just coming
out of this shape here okay so I'm just
picking those are the notes i'm working
with then i come into here and we're
working with these notes for g 7 g minor
7 i'm working with these notes G major G
flat major 7 i'm working with these
notes and back to F major simmer and the
key point is on playing straight out of
the chord shapes and why you may not
recognize them this cuz when I play
chords when I appreciate I play one note
on time because using the same notes in
two different ways melodically and
harmonically let's get to the bridge
before YouTube cuts off this webcam so
we go into the bridge and here's the
melody
sorry here's the bridge first time ok
where do I get those notes from here
sharp minor seven straight out of that
ugly J and B seven I just took this
knife is a B and there's an A and that
comes out of this whole court ok so if I
won't use a whole lot i could use all of
those but only needed two notes so i
just used to be and the a ok so i'll
just do that again is if money ok then
we do it f sharp minor again then we'll
come in to d7 right so it's coming out
of these two chords if 97 and d7 now
we're going to go G minor 7
and he flakes even right and that E flat
seven it's coming straight out of this
court I'm sorry here so come straight up
let other sees him sorry is he flat
simple to get a ride similar so here's a
G minor to E flat seven and we play two
notes out of their corner playing these
two nights and then we come to a minor
and i'm using this day when she wants by
the sea she looks